
### 删除角色报错

```sh
    postgres=# drop role airflower ;
    ERROR:  role "airflower" cannot be dropped because some objects depend on it
    DETAIL:  privileges for schema public
```

依次执行如下命令:
```sh
    postgres=# drop owned by airflower;
    DROP OWNED
    postgres=# drop role airflower ;
    DROP ROLE
```

### ShareLock

周旋

If a transaction of this sort is going to change the data in the table, then is should use `SHARE ROW EXCLUSIVE` lock mode instead of `SHARE` mode. This ensures that only one transaction of this type runs at a time. Without this, a deadlock is possible: two transactions might both acquire `SHARE` mode, and then be unable to also acquire `ROW EXCLUSIVE` mode to actually perform their updates.(Note that a transaction's own locks never conflict, so a transaction can acquire `ROW EXCLUSIVE` mode when it holds `SHARE` mode —— but not if anyone else holds `SHARE` mode.) To avoid deadlocks, make sure all transactions acquire locks on the same objects in the same order, and if multiple lock modes are involved for a single object, then transaction should always acquire the most restrictive mode first.

Obtain a `SHARE` lock on a primary key table when going to perform inserts into a foreign key table:
```sql
    BEGIN WORK;
    LOCK TABLE films IN SHARE MODE;
    SELECT id FROM films
        WHERE name = 'Star Wars: Episode I - The Plantom Menace';
    -- Do ROLLBACK if record was not returned
    INSERT INTO films_user_comments VALUES
        (_id_, 'GREAT! I was waiting for it for so long!');
    COMMIT WORK;
```

Take a `SHARE ROW EXCLUSIVE` lock on a primary key table when going to perform a delete operation:
```sql
    BEGIN WORK;
    LOCK TABLE films IN SHARE ROW EXCLUSIVE MODE;
    DELETE FROM films_user_comments WHERE id IN
        (SELECT id FROM films WHERE rating < 5);
    DELETE FROM films WHERE rating < 5;
    COMMIT WORK;
```

### ERROR:  canceling autovacuum task

It's normal. It means the autovacuum task was cancelled in order to avoid blocking your regular Postgres sessions.

If it's only during table loading, there's no problem -- the table will be processed later eventually. If it happens all the time, advise setting a cron job to carry out the vacuum task.

通常，出现这种问题有两种原因: 未完结事务及过度使用表锁。

有的时候，在系统资源足够时，数据库性能表现会很差，这个时候就可以查看 autovacuum task 是否有效执行，以便及时清理垃圾信息。如下:
```sql
    SELECT relname, last_vacuum, last_autovacuum, last_analyze, last_autoanalyze FROM pg_stat_user_tables;
```

[参考: Don’t stop PostgreSQL’s autovacuum with your application](https://blog.gocept.com/2012/05/22/dont-stop-postgresqls-autovacuum-with-your-application/)

### WARNING

```sh
    WARNING:  there is already a transaction in progress
    WARNING:  there is no transaction in progress
    WARNING:  there is no transaction in progress
```

quizzer: But with this warning it works correctly, just my boss doesn't like it, i guess.


### 自主事务

PostgreSQL 中不支持自主事务(`autonomous transaction`)，但是可以通过 `SAVEPOINT` 进行类似实现:
```sql
    BEGIN;
    INSERT ...
    SAVEPOINT a;
    some error;
    ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT a;
    COMMIT;
```
你可以通过上面的语句部分回退到某个点。示例如下:
```sql
    BEGIN;
        INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (1);
        SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
        INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (2);
        ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
        INSERT INTO table1 VALUES (3);
```
在上面的事务中，会向表 table1 中插入 1 和 3，但是不会插入 2 。


### shared memory segment

先说一下场景。

客户端往数据库里不定间隔插入数据，这种情况从 9:30 会一直持续到 15:00。到达 15:00 时，我通过 postgres 用户运行表数据转 csv 脚本，这个时候数据库日志突然出现异常打印，主要如下:
```sh
    ERROR:  could not open shared memory segment "/PostgreSQL.1506536256": No such file or directory
    ...
    WARNING:  could not remove shared memory segment "/PostgreSQL.537455320": No such file or directory
    ...
    LOG:  could not remove shared memory segment "/PostgreSQL.772967211": No such file or directory
```
现将 postgresql.conf 配置项 `dynamic_shared_memory_type` 作如下修改:
```cfg
    dynamic_shared_memory_type = sysv
```
后续再作观察。

以下是关于此的内容记述...

If systemd is in use, some care must be taken that IPC resources (including shared memory) are not prematurely removed by the operating system. This is especially of concern when installing PostgreSQL from source. Users of distribution packages of PostgreSQL are less likely to be affected, as the postgres user is then normally created as a system user.

The setting RemoveIPC in logind.conf controls whether IPC objects are removed when a user fully logs out. System users are exempt. This setting defaults to on in stock systemd, but some operating system distributions default it to off.

A typical observed effect when this setting is on is that shared memory objects used for parallel query execution are removed at apparently random times, leading to errors and warnings while attempting to open and remove them, like:
```sh
    WARNING:  could not remove shared memory segment "/PostgreSQL.1450751626": No such file or directory
```
Different types of IPC objects (shared memory vs. semaphores, System V vs. POSIX) are treated slightly differently by systemd, so one might observe that some IPC resources are not removed in the same way as others. But it is not advisable to rely on these subtle differences.

A “user logging out” might happen as part of a maintenance job or manually when an administrator logs in as the postgres user or something similar, so it is hard to prevent in general.

What is a “system user” is determined at systemd compile time from the SYS_UID_MAX setting in /etc/login.defs.

Packaging and deployment scripts should be careful to create the postgres user as a system user by using useradd -r, adduser --system, or equivalent.

Alternatively, if the user account was created incorrectly or cannot be changed, it is recommended to set
```cfg
    RemoveIPC=no
```
in /etc/systemd/logind.conf or another appropriate configuration file.

> Caution: At least one of these two things has to be ensured, or the PostgreSQL server will be very unreliable.

更多理解:
* [systemd RemoveIPC](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/kernel-resources.html)。
* [IPC通信与PostgreSQL共享内存管理](http://www.freeoa.net/osuport/db/linux-ipc-and-pgsql-shared-mem-type_3197.html)
* 手册 Page-541 18.4 Managing Kernel Resources
